# Final INFO 201 Project for Group 3
In this project, we worked with various reputable datasets giving demographic data, car crash data, and gas price data for both the city of Seattle and Washington State. We utilized the package tidycensus to obtain American Community Survey data, combining and joining census data from different years to be able to analyze it longitudinally. We combined the census data with datasets on car crashes and gas prices, which resulted in excluding monthly car crash data. We, as general members of the public, did not have access to more detailed government databases regarding demographic data. The datasets that we utilized were proven to be too summarized (as they mainly had yearly-based data and thus were largely scaled), so we found few correlations. A key example of such a limitation was that the data's highest variable for household income in Seattle was \$75,000 (while the average income is \$79,000), which severely limited the amount of data we worked with, as it excluded the transportation methods of high earners. If we had more detailed data, we would have been able to find more conclusive relationships between our variables.

The main takeaways from this project is that there is a clear dependence on public transit among certain age groups, especially in the city of Seattle (as compared to the rest of Washington state), when commute times are nearly an hour. We also found that younger commuters, specifically within the age range of 16 to 44, were more likely to utilize public transportation as compared to commuters in older age groups. Finally, we discovered that the COVID-19 pandemic limited transit data collected in 2020 and negatively affected public transportation usage as a whole due to social distancing measures.